AWS Identity and Access Management IAM

Authenticating and authorization to aws infrastructure, best practices.

All principals must be authenticated in order to access AWS services. Users, group, roles and policies are prinicipals.
A principal is a person, or application that can make a requests for an action or operation on an aws resource
 

We can assign permissions to users, and then assign policies to control access to resources
Identity based policicites
Resource based policy
Everything in AWS is a API action. eg CreateUser GetBucket RunInstances

A. Identity based policies can be applied to users, groups and roles. Policies defines the permissions for the identities or resources they are associated with.

Users.
1. Account root users: Has all access and all permissions
2. User account: Up to 5000 can be created, comes default with no permisson. They comes with arn ( Amazon resource name) e.g arn:aws:iam::62512345678:user/Andrea and also the friendly name e.g Andrea

Groups
They are collection of users to organize and apply permissions through a policy A user can be in a max of 10 groups.

Roles: 
Identities that have specific permission assigned to it. Once a user or group assumes a role, it gains the identity and permission of that role and can perform actions.
Policiies:
Policies are  documents that defines permissions and they are written in json. All permissiions are implicitly denied by defualt in AWS

B Resource based policies apply to to resources such as S3 buckets or DynamoDB tables

Authentication methods, via username and password combo, or via Access Key ID and Secret Access key. They are useful when loggin in from the cli, or by programs API

IAM does not need region setup, its not region specific.


AWS Security Token Service (STS)
Service that provides short lived or temporary credentials.


IAM Password Policy- Use IAM default policy, or set your own policy under IAM


Identity Based Policy are JSON permissions policy documents that control what actions an identity can perform, on which resources, and under what conditions. There are two types, 
A Inline policy: Has one to one policy with a user role or group, we can attach a policy to a user only, or group, one at a time ina 1-1 relationship. Delete the user, and the policy is gone. A permission policy is an example of a inine based policy.

B Managed policy: Either by your org, or by AWS. They are created and managed by AWS, customer managed are created and managed by you. Can be attached to a combo of user, group roles all at the same time.

Resource Based Policy are JSON policy documents attached to a AWS resource such as S3 bucket. A trust policy is an exanple of a resource -based policy





Amazon ELastic Compute Cloud EC2

Ec2 types
EC2 AMI Amazon Machine Image, an image snapshot made from an ebs snapshot





EBS Elastic Block Storage

Security group controls inbound and outbound traffic to an EC2. Its simply a firewall
EC2 is a regional service


To launch an EC2, start from compute
Launch an AMI






















